AGE-FRIENDLY CORTE MADERA
498 Tamalpais Drive
Corte Madera, CA 94925
(415) 480-9758
September 29, 2021
After assembling a small group of volunteers, Corte Madera was delighted to
be designated in May 2015 by the World Health Organization as an official
member of the Global Network of Age-Friendly Cities and Communities, and in
2017 as a member of AARP Network of Age-Friendly States and Communities.
This included the Town’s pledge to focus on various improvements and
supports for older residents. The AFCM Task Force developed an initial
strategic plan, as required by the W.H.O., identifying multiple domains and
objectives to undertake. In 2020, we were tasked with the next requirement,
compiling a report describing our accomplishments during the first five years.
Enclosed is the documentation of our efforts during this period. This report is
offered for your review before the October 5, 2021 Town Council Meeting
where we will present the report to the Council.
Sincerely,
Pati Stoliar, RN (ret.)
Chair, Age-Friendly Corte Madera
www.agefriendlycortemadera.org
Age-Friendly Corte Madera
498 Tamalpais Drive
Corte Madera, CA 94925
415.480.9758
agefriendlycortemadera@gmail.com
agefriendlycortemadera.org
AGE-FRIENDLY CORTE MADERA
FIVE YEAR EVALUATION
2015-2020
--...;.--- fl_ge-Frle110/g
........~- Co14te Mt1oera
This report is a brief overview of the projects and activities of Age-Friendly Corte
Madera (AFCM) since joining the World Health Organization’s Global Network of
Age-Friendly Cities and Communities. In keeping with the requirement to provide
an update after five years, we have created this review.
Age-Friendly Corte Madera is dedicated to creating physical and social
environments that support and enhance healthy and active aging, and an optimal
quality of life for our older residents.
AFCM began with an initial meeting on April 1, 2014, and is dedicated to making
recommendations and fostering improvements to enhance livability for all ages.
We then garnered seven volunteers, including the two Corte Madera
representatives to the Marin County Commission on Aging. On July 15, 2014, the
Town Council unanimously endorsed AFCM by Resolution #24/2014. AFCM was
welcomed to the WHO Network on May 19, 2015, and joined the AARP Livable
Cities in 2017.
Background
Mission Statement
Establishing Age-Friendly Corte Madera (AFCM)
2017
AFCM created a survey to identify areas of concern to older residents in our
community. On September 9, 2014, AFCM
sent out 2185 surveys to those over 60.
With 757 responses (34% participation), the
survey became a tool to initiate prioritizing
goals and objectives. The survey and all the
results are available to anyone on Age-
Friendly Corte Madera’s website
(http://www.agefriendlycortemadera.com)
and provide helpful data to a wide variety of
researchers.
Initial funding was provided by the business community, local nonprofit
organizations, individuals, and the County of Marin.
Survey of Older Adults
Funding
Tlln&lnnb tt@ @lm)I'
tteJl'Jl'nfi«: IJ)@mll@Jl'I i
Corre Modero
Community Foundation
THE TOWN OF
CORTE MADERA
MARIN COL~'T\' CALIFOR.~IA
MA R< COUT Y]
OGiSION G 1
11 HfALiH&
~ HUMAN
. SERVICES
rle.1/tb. We/1-bemg <J' S.i{ety
4"'/UJ,TN~
C ORTE MADERA
C RE ATE D WIT H LI FE I N M I N D.
AFCM created a web site [http://www.agefriendlycortemadera.com] that lists
activities, programs, survey results, resources and more. Every year, AFCM
participates in the Marin Senior Fair and the Corte Madera Senior Fair and enters a
decorated float in the Corte Madera Fourth of July parade that attracts about
15,000 spectators. The quarterly Corte Madera Chamber of Commerce newsletter
includes a column for updates on AFCM efforts and activities. AFCM maintains a
presence on Facebook, posts notifications on NextDoor and has activities
highlighted on the town’s weekly digital newsletter. At times, AFCM updates are
reported at town council meetings.
About one hundred town residents attend Age-Friendly Corte Madera’s jubilant
annual celebration honoring our nonagenarians and
centenarians. Honorees are recognized by their
family, friends and neighbors. Congratulatory
certificates are provided on behalf of the mayor of
Corte Madera, the County Board of Supervisors and
the state legislature. During Covid-19, members of
the AFCM task force delivered special gifts to
honorees’ doorsteps when community celebrations
were not possible.
AFCM collaborated with the Corte Madera Parks and Recreation Department,
Twin Cities Village and Age-Friendly Solutions (which funds the Age-Friendly
Intergenerational Center) to present monthly speakers on topics relevant to older
adults at the community room of the police authority and then at the main hall of
Promotion and Raising Awareness
Corte Madera Honors Our Nonagenarians and Centenarians
Third Wednesday Speaker Series
2016
the community center. During the Covid-19 pandemic, AFCM collaborates with
other Age-Friendly cities in Marin to continue the monthly presentations virtually.
With no form of senior center in town, a major goal in establishing AFCM was to
create a place to congregate, offer activities and classes, and to fight isolation in
older adults. In 2018, the Town offered space for 501(c)3 Age-Friendly Solutions
to provide these services using an intergenerational model for members, not just in
Corte Madera, but throughout the county. Programs included watercolor painting,
makerspace, chair yoga, easy aerobics, reading to preschoolers and card games.
When Covid-19 required the center to shut down, there were over 300 members.
Most activities transitioned to an online format and continue daily, expanding the
reach throughout the U.S. and beyond.
Age-Friendly Intergenerational Center (AFIC)
2018
Several times per year, AFCM collaborates with our local Rotary Club and our
Corte Madera Lions Club providing senior help days. Volunteers offer free
assistance with household tasks, such as turning mattresses, hanging picture
frames, freeing stuck windows, changing smoke alarm batteries and trimming
wayward branches.
Every May, the Town of Corte Madera Recreation Department sponsors a
community Senior Fair. In October, Marin County sponsors a Senior Information
Fair for the entire county. AFCM volunteers always participate at both of these
events promoting the Age-Friendly objectives and providing resource referrals to
attendees.
Having initial success in getting countdown crossings changed to increase safety at
intersections, AFCM undertook a mapping project to identify conditions, benches,
restrooms and drinking fountains in town. The taskforce is currently completing
data collection and verification (ground truthing) before beginning design and
production.
Collaboration with Lions Club/Rotary Club
Senior Fairs
Walking Map Project
Partnering with Lions Club and Rotary Club
As part of its mission to reduce barriers,
AFCM encourages participation in Cycling
Without Age, a program allowing seniors to
"feel the sun on their face and the wind in
their hair" and share the experience with
younger peddlers while riding a three-
wheeled trishaw. Prior to the Covid-19
pandemic, Corte Madera’s chapter, Cycling
Without Age Marin, provided rides at Town
events and other selected venues. For more
information, visit
facebook.com/CyclingWithoutAgeMarin
and CyclingWithoutAge.com.
In 2015-16, AFCM fostered the creation of the Twin Cities Village under the
umbrella of Marin Villages. The Villages is a nationwide membership group that
provides social and educational programs, resources, rides and volunteers to enable
older adults to remain safely in their homes as they age. Twin Cities Village has
grown to over 30 members and 54 volunteers.
Cycling Without Age
Twin Cities Village
2017
2016
When Covid-19 struck, Marin County was
among the first in the nation to order a shelter-in-
place on March 16, 2020. AFCM immediately
offered suggestions to town staff to do outreach
to isolated seniors and assess what urgent needs
arose. Collaboration with the recreation
department staff continued beyond 2020 to
maintain ongoing check-in calls and offer
resources and referrals to older adults, including
suggestions for emergency readiness and disaster
planning. In addition, AFCM initiated a program
to make available masks supplied by the town for
anyone visiting our large Town Park. The Corte
Madera Lions Club then stepped up to monitor
and replenish hundreds of masks even into 2021.
In addition to the speaker presentations held monthly, AFCM also joins other Age-
Friendly representatives in Marin at two other monthly meetings of the Age-
Friendly Marin Network: one is a quick roundtable check-in/update for an hour
before the monthly meetings of the Commission on Aging; the other is a more
extensive planning session offering brainstorming and support for roadblocks and
challenges. AFCM also participates in an informal group of people from Bay Area
Age-Friendly communities that meets to discuss initiatives and gets support from
regional allie
